.\" This definition swiped from the gcc(1) man page
.de Sp
.if n .sp
.if t .sp 0.4
..
.TH NMAPFE 1
.SH NAME
nmapfe (xnmap) \- GTK+ graphical frontend to the Nmap Security Scanner
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nmapfe 
[ any Glib options such as --display ]
.SH DESCRIPTION

.I Nmapfe
(also known as xnmap) is a convenient X Window front end for the Nmap
Security Scanner.  Most of the options correspond directly to Nmap
options, which are described in detail in the Nmap man page.  We
recommend you read that first.  There is also limited help available
via the NmapFE "Help" menu.
.SH AUTHOR
.Sp
NmapFE was originally written by Zach Smith
.I <key@aye.net>
.Sp
It is now maintained by Fyodor
.I <fyodor@insecure.org>
.Sp
Feel free to write me ( fyodor@insecure.org ) with 
questions or bug reports.
.SH DISTRIBUTION
The newest version of 
.I nmapfe
can be obtained from 
.I http://www.insecure.org/nmap/
.Sp
.I nmapfe
is (C) 1999, 2000 by Fyodor (fyodor@insecure.org)
.Sp
This program is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation;
Version 2.  This guarantees your right to use, modify, and
redistribute Nmap under certain conditions.  If this license
is unacceptable to you, Insecure.Org may be willing to sell
alternative licenses (contact fyodor@insecure.org ).
.Sp
Source is provided to this software because we believe users
have a right to know exactly what a program is going to do
before they run it.  This also allows you to audit the
software for security holes (none have been found so far).
.Sp
Source code also allows you to port nmapfe to new platforms,
fix bugs, and add new features.  You are highly encouraged
to send your changes to Fyodor for possible incorporation
into the main Nmap distribution.  By sending these changes
to Fyodor or nmap-hackers, it is assumed that you are
offering Fyodor the unlimited, non-exclusive right to reuse,
modify, and relicense the code.  If you wish to specify
special license conditions of your contributions, please
state them up front.
.Sp
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.B WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied warranty of
.B MERCHANTABILITY 
or 
.B FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
See the GNU
General Public License for more details (it is in the COPYING file of
the
.I nmap 
distribution).  
.Sp
It should also be noted that Nmap has been known to crash
certain poorly written applications, TCP/IP stacks, and even
operating systems.
.B Nmap should never be run against mission critical systems 
unless you are prepared to suffer downtime.  We acknowledge
here that Nmap may crash your systems or networks and we
disclaim all liability for any damage or problems Nmap could
cause.
